[Music]
Madam president and members of the Court
it is a great honor to appear before you
again and a privilege to appear on
behalf of the state of
Israel it is my task today to address
the issues falling within the general
categories of primer fascia jurisdiction
and the preservation of alleged rights
sought to be protected however I would
like first to make a preliminary comment
about the key question of context which
constitutes the framework for the
consideration of this request for the
ground of provisional
measures South Africa casts its net
widely in its application it uses the
word context many
times in particular it declares that it
is important to place the acts of
genocide in the broader context of
Israel's conduct towards the
Palestinians during its 75 year long
paride leaving aside the outrageous
nature of that statement why stop at 75
years why not refer to 1922 and the
approval by the Council of the League of
Nations of the British mandate
or
1917 the proclamation of the balford
Declaration maybe also include the entry
into the land of Israel of the Israelite
tribes some
3,500 years ago
no the immediate and approximate context
for the specific allegations of genocide
claimed by South Africa lies in the
events of the sth of October when Hamas
militants and other armed groups and
individuals stormed into the
internationally recognized Sovereign
territory of Israel and committed acts
of bely credible atrocity it was these
events that truly constitute the real
context for South Africa's allegations
indeed such act may be seen as the real
genocide in this
situation as the president of the
European commission put it on the 19th
of
October there was no limit to the blood
Hamas terrorists wanted to spill they
went home by home they burned people
alive their mutilated children and even
babies why because they were Jews
because they were living in the state of
Israel and hamas's explicit goal is to
eradicate Jewish life life from the Holy
Land these terrorists supported by their
friends into haran will never stop and
so Israel has the right to defend itself
in line with humanitarian
law of
course these atrocities do not justify
violations of the law in
reply still less
genocide but they do justify mandate
even the exercise of the legitimate and
inherent right of a state to defend
itself as enshrined in the UN Charter
and under customary international
law to put an end to the continuing
attacks against it and to prevent them
from
succeeding a threat that has been made
explicitly bamas and repeated and it is
thus real and imminent
this context is critical for it shows
that the true nature of the
situation as it as it has unfolded
particularly the 7th of October is that
of an armed conflict a heavily armed
militia and its allies precipitated
egregious hostilities and the
consequences lie everywhere point is
this armed conflict even when fully
Justified IED and conducted lawfully is
brutal and costs
lives particularly when the militia in
question specifically targets civilians
and civilian
facilities and when it is patently
unconcerned about causing civilian
casualties on its own
side the conflict has also regulated by
law the rules and principles of
international humanitarian law under the
h regulations the Geneva conventions of
1949 and customary international law
these are welldeveloped and applicable
and are fully respected by
Israel such rules cover permitted
activities under International
humanitarian law where civilian damage
and loss always to be
regretted are caused in the legitimate
pursuit of military objectives through
to the violation of the
laww being grave breaches of the G
conventions and up to war crimes and
crimes against humanity
however the only category before this
court is
genocide not every conflict is
genocidal the crime of genocide in
international law and under the genocide
convention in international law is a
uniquely milici ious
manifestation it stands alone amongst
the violations of international law as
the epitome and Zenith of evil it has
been described correctly as the crime of
crimes the ultimate in
wickedness indeed the court itself
emphasized in its order of the 2nd of
June
1999 that the threat or use of force
cannot in itself constitute an act of
genocide within the meaning of Article 2
of the Geneva
Convention and particularly instant
bombing as lacking the element of intent
in the
circumstances to put it another way if
claims of genocide were to become the
common currency of armed conflict
whenever and wherever that
occurred the essence of this crime would
be diluted and lost
I turn now to the question of the primer
FAA jurisdiction of the court in the
matter before
us article n of the genocide convention
to which both part both states are
parties without
reservation makes the Court's
jurisdictional Jurisdiction conditional
on the existence of a dispute relating
to the interpretation application or
fulfillment of the convention
mention and the relevant date for
determining the existence of such a
dispute is the date on which the
application is submitted to the
court whether or not a dispute in these
terms exists at the time of the filing
of the application is a matter for
objective determination by the court it
is a matter of substance and not a
question of form or procedure the court
will take into account in particular any
statements or documents exchanged
between the parties as well as any
exchanges made in multilateral settings
the court has
said the key Point here is the use of
the term exchange between the
parties unilateral assertion does not
suffice there needs to be some element
of Engagement between between the
parties the element of interchange and
bilateral
interaction is required a dispute is a
reciprocal phenomenon this point has
been consistently noted by the
court for example the court reaffirmed
in the Mayanmar case the view that it
had expressed earlier that in order for
a dispute in the sense of article 9 to
exist it must be shown that the claim of
one party
is positively
opposed by the
other the court further referred in the
Marshall Islands cases to the need that
the respondent should not be deprived of
the opportunity to react before the
institution of proceedings to the claim
made made against its own
conduct where a state makes an assertion
concerning the conduct of another
state it must thus give the latter a
reasonable opportunity to respond before
resorting to
litigation particularly in a matter of
such severity as an accusation of
genocide and particularly before a court
of this
standing and it behoves that state to
provide supporting evidence of some
credibility
here South Africa cites only a couple of
general public statements by Israel
referencing merely a press report by
Reuters and a publicity release from the
Israeli Ministry of Foreign
Affairs these responses were not
addressed directly or even indirectly to
South Africa there is no evidence of
positive opposition as required by the
report further South Africa cites no
relevant exchange between the parties
which would be the normal fashion for
the expression and determination of a
dispute between
states this actually typifies how South
Africa has approached this matter it
seems to believe that it does not take
two to tango it is sufficient if one
state determines there is a dispute
leaving the other party
flx Professor Dugard explains that South
Africa had voiced its South Africa had
voiced its concerns in the security
Council and in public statements and
refer and had further referred the
matter to the international criminal
court at that point he says it became
clear there was a serious dispute
between the two
states the court has emphasized that in
the case of statements made by one state
in a multilateral forum the court must
give particular attention inter Alia to
the content of a party statement and to
the identity of the intended
addresses in order to determine whether
that statement together with any
reaction
thet show that the parties before it
held clearly opposite
views South Africa's actions were insuff
efficient indeed in the martial Islands
cases the court referring specifically
to statement made at a conference noted
that it did not call for a specific
reaction by the UK and thus no
opposition of views can be inferred from
the absence of any such
reaction specific
reaction it is th disingenuous for
Professor Dugard to conclude that Israel
must have been aware from South Africa's
public statements de Mar and referral to
the IC of Israel's genocidal acts that a
dispute existed between the two states
this is not a dispute it is a Unis spute
a one-sided clapping of
hands Professor dug God perhaps tries to
retrieve the situation by declaring that
that special considerations apply to the
existence of disputes concerning article
9 without telling us what those
conditions could possibly
be we come now to the rather bizarre
story of the exchange of note
verbal Professor dogod would have us
believe that such exchanges are merely a
matter of courtesy of little real
consequence
this is not the normal understanding of
such notes and their importance in
international relations but he says this
for a reason as we shall
see South Africa instituted proceedings
against Israel on the 29th of
December in its long recital the
application notes that on the 21st of
December South Africa sent a note verbal
to Israel raising its concerns about
genocide in Gaza the application further
states that Israel has not responded
directly to South Africa's note
verbal this is
incorrect Israel did indeed respond that
very day informing South Africa that the
node verbal has been forwarded to
Capital and that a response was expected
shortly South Africa confirmed the next
day that it had received the message on
the 26th of December the director
general of Israel's Ministry of Foreign
Affairs proposed to his counterpart in
the department of international
relations and cooperation of South
Africa by text to shedule a meeting at
his earliest convenience in order to
discuss the issues
raised on the 27th of December the
embassy sent to South Africa by email a
note verbal s suggesting a meeting of
respective directors General at the
earliest convenience in order to discuss
the issues
raised an an attempt by the embassy to
hand deliver the note was refused due to
a national holiday and the South African
Department of international relations
specifically advised the embassy on the
28th of December to hand deliver the
note on the 2nd of
January the application was instituted
on the 29th of
December this was an attempt by the
state of Israel in good faith to open a
dialogue and discuss South Africa's
concerns however Not only was this
ignored at the relevant time but South
Africa proceeded to Institute
proceedings the following day and
declared in its application that no
reply had been received to its note
verbal which was patently not the the
case perhaps realizing the effect of
this South Africa with some haste sent a
note verbal on the 4th of January which
essentially just repeated the contents
of the note of the 21st of
December but it explained the following
day in a letter to the regist that the
Israeli note had not been received by
the appropriate team Israel has proof of
receipt it also stated that the dispute
is plainly not capable of resolution by
way of a bilateral meeting nevertheless
it suggested to hold hold a meeting the
next morning Israel replied the next
morning expressing surprise that South
Africa had instituted proceedings
without taking up a sincerely made offer
to hold
consultations and conveying its wish for
discussions to be held following the
close of these oral hearings South
Africa in a note dated the 10th of
January similarly and surprisingly in
the circumstances said there was no
point in such a meeting curious
indeed South Africa decided
unilaterally that a dispute existed
irrespective of Israel's conciliatory
andf friendly response since
repeated perhaps at South Africa taken
up this offer at the time proferred as a
result of its own note the parties may
have decided there was no dispute as
such to place before the court under the
genocide
convention and that South Africa's
expressed concerns over the genocide
allegation would have been assuaged we
may never know South Africa's
precipitate institution of proceedings
foreclosed that
option it's a point where worth
underlining South Africa did not give
Israel a reasonable opportunity to
engage with it on the matters under
consideration before filing its no doubt
long prepared
application one wonders whether South
Africa at the very last moment suddenly
realized that it needed to show the
existence of a dispute under the terms
of the genocide convention and proceeded
to hastily formulate and dispatch a
flurry of notes
the court can grant orders for
provisional measures only where the
provisions relied upon by the applicant
a prim fase to afford a basis on which
its jurisdiction could be founded
although it need not satisfy in itself
in a definitive manner that it has
jurisdiction as regards the merits of
the
case it's not an easy matter to
determine whether a primer face shap
case exists it rests between full proof
and complete absence of
proof and is intended to ensure that the
court functions effectively and
efficiently but there has to be
something tangible in terms of the
provisions in
question the provisional measures
procedure is a complex instrument in
that the court has to decide upon the
basis of certain assumptions which may
or may not be disproved at a later stage
of the
proceedings this is particularly
difficult in such an egregious manner
matter as an allegation of
genocide were understood by
the excuse
me I've lost a
page
okay well the standard of proof at the
merriage stage is high the court having
made it clear that claims against a
state involving charges of exceptional
gravity must be proved by evidence that
is fully
conclusive that is not the case of
course of the provisional measures stage
but it's also not
negligible the court is asked to Grant
in this case a number of measures that
in effect assume that the party in
question is committing genocide as Mr
Staker will show later this morning mud
is thrown at a stage before conclusive
proof and it may stick even if the
accusation is comprehensively disproved
at the Merit phase as we
expect a serious political and security
price may be paid by the grantee of such
measures
even though it may later be shown to be
completely
unwarranted this must surely required
that the court acts with caution and
understanding particularly in evaluating
the components of the allegation in
law provisional measures are intended to
constitute a shield and not a sword to
preserve not undermine
rights we have shown that one element of
article 9 that of the need to
demonstrate the existence of a
dispute as understood by the court in
the light of its case law is
lacking the second element concerns the
question as to whether the ACT
complained of by the applicant can be
seen as falling within the
provisions uh of the
convention the court has noted that only
at the merriage stage can be determined
whether the Provisions in question of
the convention have been
violated to accomplish this the
necessary specific intent to destroy in
whole or in part a national ethnical
racial or religious group as such has to
be proved
however this cannot be read as a
complete rejection of consideration of
the intend Criterion for current
purposes the court is the mindark case
noted that a finding of violations of
the Merit stage notably depends on the
existence of intent notably not
exclusively Myanmar is not a ruling that
intent is irrelevant in a consideration
of Prim of fascia jurisdiction it is a
ruling that in conclusion as to whether
or not violations have actually occurred
is a matter for the merits which notably
depends on an assess M of intent this
clearly leaves open the
possibility that
intent is indeed a factor in determining
prate faal jurisdiction in Prov
provisional measures
proceedings this also comports with the
logic of the
situation the acts element of the
definition of genocide are listed in
article two and for present purposes
there is no need to go through them the
issue is this what determines the
existence of the crime of genocide
isal measures phase of this case South
Africa does not have to prove that
genocidal acts have been or are being
committed but it does have to show that
the con that the genocide convention is
in
play after all this court has no
jurisdiction to consider consider any
other alleged crimes however serious we
are only concerned with
genocide it is indeed a difficult
balance for the
court the court has stated that what is
required at this stage is to establish
whether the acts complained of are
capable of falling within the provisions
of the genocide convention but the acts
complained of may only be capable of
falling within the provisions of the
genocide convention if the intent is
present otherwise such acts
cannot constitute
genocide the fact of intent colors the
whole question of Article 2 acts in
other
words that there is primate evidence
that the acts that may fall within the
convention necessarily imposing the
intent elements have been established as
such South Africa
accepts the need to demonstrate
intent it referred to the concept of
specific intent in its application both
generally and in the specific context of
his discussion of the Court's Prime
fascia jurisdiction in provisional
measures
proceedings indeed South Africa placed a
considerable emphasis upon intent in its
pleadings Yesterday by Miss
hassim Mr Ang kitobi devoted his whole
pleading to this
requirement as far as the acts are
concerned in this case there is little
Beyond random assertions to demonstrate
that Israel has or has had the specific
intent to destroy in whole or in part
the Palestinian people as
such the intention faced with the 7th of
October atrocities and the continuing
rocket fire and incarceration of the
hostages on the part of Israel to act in
order to defend itself so as to
terminate the threats against it and
rescue the hostages certainly
exists the intent to deal with the armed
militants of Hamas and other such groups
is
undeniable were it the case which we
deny that Israeli forces have
transgressed some of the rules of
conflict then the matter would be
tackled at the appropriate time Time by
Israel's robust and independent legal
system but that is not the intent to
destroy all or part of a people as such
Israel's actions in restricting its
targeting practices to attack military
personnel or objectives in accordance
with International humanitarian law in a
proportionate manner in each
case as well as its practice of
mitigating civilian harm such as by
forewarning civilians of impending
action by the unprecedented and
extensive use of telephone calls
leafleting and so forth coupled with the
facilitation of humanitarian assistance
all demonstrate the precise opposite of
any possible genocidal
intent South Africa in seeking to
discover the necessary intent presents a
distorted picture it misunderstands the
nature and provenance of certain comment
comments made by some Israeli
politicians let me try and explain the
big
picture Israel possesses a clear excuse
me a clear and effective structure of
authority with regard to governmental
decision
the war against Hamas is managed on
behalf of the
government by two Central
organs the ministerial committee on
National Security
Affairs and the war excuse
me uh and the war cabinet
the latter established for the purpose
of managing the War uh by the
former these bodies make the relevant
decisions regarding the war's conduct
and according to Israeli law the
decisions of the government and its
committees obligate the Ministers of the
government in accordance with the
principle of collective
responsibility it is the collective
decisions of these bodies
which are The Binding Provisions in
question a prime minister stands at the
head of these
organs decides on the agenda of their
meetings steers their activity and
summarizes the meetings and the
instructions issued therein to make it
clear in order to determine the policy
and intentions of the government of
Israel it is necessary to examine the
decisions of the ministerial committee
on National Security Affairs and the war
cabinet and to examine whether the
particular comments expressed conform or
not with the policies and decisions made
th to produce random quotes that are not
in Conformity with government policy
produced as describing is misleading at
best such as the statements by the
minister of Heritage for example who is
completely outside the policy and
decisionmaking process in the war in any
event his statement was immediately
repudiated by members of the war cabinet
and other ministers including the prime
minister in ch 1 a of the volume which
Israel has submitted to the court one
may find numerous excerpts from internal
cabinet decisions
that attest to Israel's true intent
throughout this war for example one
finds the instructions from the prime
minister in a meeting of the ministerial
committee on National Security affairs
from the 29th of October stating the
following
one the Prime Minister stated time and
again we must prevent a humanitarian
disaster two the Prime Minister
indicated the possible source of
solutions that may that will ensure
required supply of water food and
Medicine increasing the amount of trucks
entering with the necessary inspections
three promoting the construction of
field hospitals in the south of the Gaza
Strip to
reemphasize this is a directive to
authorities nothing less taban a
contains a considerable number of
similar directives emphasizing the need
to avoid harm to civilians and
facilitate humanitarian
Aid genocidal
intent let me turn to the
IDF this is this like every Army is a
hierarchical body that operates by way
of orders from superiors and is headed
by the chief of the general
staff remarks or actions of a soldier do
not and cannot reflect
policy in tab 1B one may find a daily
operational
directive which I understand is repeated
day by day issued by the operations
directorate of the IDF stating that
attacks will be solely directed towards
military targets while adhering to the
principles of Distinction
proportionality the obligation taking
precautions in attacks in order to
reduce collateral
damage this is a directive that binds
all IDF forces it continues by stating
that the laws of armed conflict allow
destruction to civilian property only
when there is a military necessity to do
so and prohibit harm to property for
deterrence purposes only or for the
purpose of punishment individual or
Collective it emphasizes that it is
necessary to treat enemy civilians with
respect they should not be treated in a
humil humiliating Manner and civilians
should not be used for the purposes for
the purpose of Performing activities
that might put them under risk to their
life or their body this is a mandated
instruction
effective since the start of the war tab
1B contains many similar Provisions
which are themselves only an
illustration of many other such
directives orders and
procedures further on the 28th of
October the Prime Minister publicly
declared that the IDF is doing
everything possible to avoid harming
those not
involved while on the 18th of November
he declared that first of all and above
all else Israel acts according to the
laws of war this is how our army
works the Minister of Defense publicly
stated that on the 29th of October that
we are not fighting the Palestinian
multitude and the Palestinian people in
Gaza and declared on the 13th of
November that our war is against the
Hamas terrorist organiz ization not the
people of Gaza again the president of
Israel declared on the 12th of October
that we are working operating militarily
according to rules of international law
period
unequivocally we have collated numerous
such statements by the president by the
Prime Minister by the ministry of
Defense by the IDF spokes person and
others in tab two of our volume since
this is such a critical part of South
Africa's thesis permit me to refer to
two further statements by the Prime
Minister I start with the most
recent 10th of
January Israel has no intention of
permanently occupying Gaza or displacing
its civilian population Israel is
fighting Hamas terrorist not the
Palestinian population and we are doing
so in full compliance with international
law the IDF is doing its utmost to
minimize civilian casualties while Hamas
is doing its utmost to maximize them by
using Palestinian civilians as human
Shields the IDF urges Palestinian
civilians to leave War zones by
disseminating leaflets making phone
calls providing safe passage corridors
while Hamas prevents Palestinians from
leaving at gunpoint and often with
gunfire our goal is is to rid Gaza of
Hamas terrorists and free our hostages
once this is achieved Gaza can be
demilitarized and
deradicalized thereby creating a
possibility for a better future for
Israel and Palestinians
alike on 23rd of November prime minister
nany declared that any
civilian death is a tragedy anyone and
to to avoid them what you do is first
you try and get the civilian out of
Harm's Way and that's exactly what we
did there are many more of the same any
careful review of the official and
binding policy decisions made by the
relevant authorities in Israel since the
outbreak of the war clearly evidence
that such decisions lack any genocidal
intent the contrary is true they are
indicative of the consistent and
Relentless commitment of Israeli
relevant authorities to mitigate
civilian harm and alleviate civilian
suffering in Gaza some of the comments
which South Africa refers are clearly
rhetorical made in the immediate
aftermath of an event which severely
traumatized Israel but which cannot be
seen as demanding genocide they Express
anguish and the necessity to restore
control over Israel's own territory and
a Severe threat and safety to its
citizens as DCH com tomka has noted
sometimes statements are made which are
nothing more than a part of the recent
wartime rhetoric intending to put the
blame and shame on the other side not to
be totally ignored but not to be
ascribed an importance which realize how
and when they were made nor of legal
significance let me refer to one further
matter of some biblical
moment yesterday the applicant referred
time but again to two statements by the
Israeli Prime Minister where he said
remember what amalik did to you and
attach great importance to it as part of
the argument that Israel has
demonstrated a genocide intent there is
no need here for a theological
discussion on the meeting of amalak in
Judaism which was indeed not understood
by the applicant let me just turn to the
Prime Minister statement of the 28th of
October which was partially and
misleadingly quoted
yesterday he said we are now entering
the second phase of the war which its
objectives are clear the restriction of
the military and governmental
capabilities Sol mass and the return of
the hostages back home in the last
couple of days I have met with our
soldiers in the bases in the field in
the north and in the South remember what
a Malak has done to you we remember and
we are
fighting in front of our brave and hero
soldiers there is one prior mission to
defeat the murderous enemy and secure
our existence in our lands the IDF is
the most moral army in the world the IDF
does everything to avoid harming the
uninvolved tab three lists and addresses
additional examples of misleading quotes
by the applicants
regarding Israel's policy it is this our
conclusion that South Africa has failed
to demonstrate the primary facia
jurisdiction of the court I turn to the
next
issue
as the court has noted its power to
Grant provisional measures has its
object the preservation of the
respective rights claimed by the parties
in a case pending its decision on the
merits at the provisional measure stage
the court does not need to determine to
determine that such rights do actually
exist in a definitive manner but it must
establish that such rights are
plausible South Africa yesterday dealt
with this rather
lightly we can safely
say the plausibility is an elusive
concept simply declaring that claim
rights are plausible is
insufficient the issue was addressed by
judge Greenwood in the Border area case
when he emphasized that what is required
is something more than assertion but
less than proof in other words the party
must show that there is at least a
reasonable
possibility that the right it claims
exists as a matter of Law and will be a
judged to apply to that party's case he
later discussed this in terms of a
reasonable Prospect of success what is
clear is that the court has sought to
apply plausibility to particular treaty
Provisions or to general rules of
international
law the court has also considered claims
of fact in this cont as well as law such
as the finding as to whether Equatorial
Guinea plausibly used the building at 42
Avenue forch for diplomatic
purposes in this case the court did not
limit itself to considering where the
applicant plausibly held the rights in
question under international law but
extended the field of inquiry to include
consideration as to whether it was
plausible that the respondent had
breached the right in question
question this approach appears also in
Ukraine and
Russia where the court concluded that on
the basis of the evidence presented by
the parties it appears that some of the
acts complained of by Ukraine fulfill
this condition of plausibility in other
words the court was prepared to consider
not only the question question of the
plausibility of
Rights
well some has shuffled my
papers
well but also the uh question of the
possible breach
of such
rights the power of the court to
indicate provisional measures under
article 41 of the statute has its object
object yes someone thought that my
speech was a pack of
cards
indeed in the jadav case my apologies
the court was prepared to examine
evidence as to the existence of asserted
rights and whether as a matter of fact
the violations had plausibly happened
the final point to be made in this
section of my pleading is simply to
underline the obvious point that the
court needs to consider the relevant
respective rights of both parties
respondent as well as the
applicant article 41 provides that the
purpose of the provisional measures is
to preserve
the rights of either
party I would note the court order of
the 16th of March 2022 in Ukraine Russia
stating that the power of the court to
indicate provisional measures as it has
as its object a preservation of the
respective rights claimed by the
parties and further quote the comment in
the Myanmar case that the function of
provisional measures is to protect the
respective rights of either party
pending its final decision this Mutual
protection or balancing Criterion in the
light of the rights of both parties is
intended to prevent either party being
placed in a situation of disadvantage
and to ensure that irreparable Prejudice
will not be caused to either party I
will look briefly at the relevant rights
of both parties
here as regards the applicant I make
three simple and brief points First
South Africa has presented a confusing
and a partial ccle of fact will be disc
discussed later this morning
by Miss Rajan secondly that the
appropriate legal framework for this
tragic situation is that of
international humanitarian law
thirdly that Israel's efforts both to
mitigate harm when conducting operations
as well as its efforts to alleviate
suffering through humanitarian
activities have gone relatively
unnoticed and dispel or at the very
least
mitigate against the allegation of
genocidal
intent as from Israel's withdrawal of
its civilian and Military presence from
Gaza in 2005 which brought an end to its
belligerent occupation and the violent
coming to power of Hamas in 2007 a
situation of conflict has existed with
Hamas firing Rockets as Israeli towns
and villages unceasingly
however the attack on Israel on the 7th
of October was qualitatively different
from all that went before the truth is
that if there has been any genocidal
activity in this situation it was the
events of 7th of
October acts and intent can and have
been advocately
demonstrated but Hamas recognized as a
terrorist group by at least 41 States
including the US the UK all members of
the EU Canada Australia Saudi Arabia
Japan and Colombia is not before the
court only South Africa a third party
that is not involved in the armed
conflict appears nevertheless as South
Africa has pointed out complicity in
genocide is in
play
states that supported condoned praised
or glorified the events of the 7th of
October both at the time and later stand
guilty of a violation of article 3E of
the Convention as being complicit in
genocide and indeed of the duty to
prevent genocide under article one and
as the agent has pointed out South
Africa has given sucker and support to
Hamas at the
least clearly of relevance to a
discussion of of the situation is the
facilitation of humanitarian assistance
something that hardly sits well with
accusations of genocidal intent as my
colleagues will demonstrate Israeli
Israel's activities in this area need to
be addressed and not swept aside as
South Africa seeks to
do Prime amongst the rights of the
respondent that are critical to any
legal evaluation of the situation is the
inherent right of any state to defend
itself embedded in customary
international law and enshrined in the
UN Charter this right afforded to states
reaffirms and underlines their
responsibility of all states towards uh
their
citizens and marks the acceptance by the
International Community of the political
reality and legal confir confirmation
that states when attacked May
legitimately respond in a forceful and
proportionate manner Professor low
yesterday sought to maintain that Israel
has no right to self-defense in this
situation how could anyone possibly
argue that Israel could not defend
itself faced with the 7th of October
atrocities and the incessant attacks
against his civilians since indeed a
very wide range of States has
acknowledged the right of self-defense
here ranging from the UK to the US
France Germany Italy Canada Japan Ghana
and Guatemala and
others Israel Bears the responsibility
to exercise its protection over its
citizens not
only those constantly subjected to
bombardment from Gaza but also and
critically with regard to those captured
and held hostage as a result of the 7th
of October
outrage these rights exist and cannot be
disregarded of course Israel does not
have any right to violate the law still
less to commit genocide and indeed it
does not but it does have every right to
act to defend itself in accordance with
the rules and principles of this of
international law and so it has
done a link has to be established
between the rights asserted and the
provisional measures requested and this
issue will be addressed by Mr
Staker and he will show that the
measures proposed go far beyond the
protection of the rights
asserted Madam president members of the
Court this is an important case
allegations have been made with which
Verge on the
outrageous the attack by Hamas on 7th of
October with its deliberate Commission
of atrocities clearly forms in Falls
within the statutory definition of
genocide Israel's response was and
remains legitimate and
necessary it acted and continues to act
in a manner consistent with
international law it does so not in now
unrestrained manner but in investing
unprecedented efforts in mitigating
civilian home at a cost to its
operations as well as alleviating
hardship and suffering with investment
of resources and efforts there is no
genocidal intent here this is no
genocide South Africa tells us only half
the story Israel is guilty of genocide
we cannot deal with Hamas only Israel
Must Be Stopped from protecting its
citizenry and elimate eliminating the
egregious threat that is Hamas we cannot
deal with
Hamas meanwhile we must bind the arms of
the state of Israel Hamas is for some
other
body I
conclude first the core of genocide is
intent without intent there can be no
genocide in law it is true for the Merit
it is equally true for provisional
measures any primer fase consideration
indeed of intent even at this
preliminary stage will only demonstrate
its absence from Israel's activities
second there is here no dispute under
the genocide Convention as at the time
of submission of the application as
alleged by South Africa and as required
for primary fa jurisdiction
indeed South Africa's own precipitate
activities with notes over recent weeks
demonstrates the lack of its confidence
in this respect and that is
telling thirdly the right to be
protected in the provisional measures
procedure cover not just the applicant
but also the respondents and chief
amongst these rights is that of the
right and obligation to act to defend
itself and its citizens this must be
considered and weighed by the court as
against the false accusations leel
Israel Madame President members of the
Court thank you for your kind attention